README.md, before:

# Blood Pressure Estimation with Deep Learning and Multiple Embeddings

This repository provides an implementation of deep learning frameworks for **cuffless blood pressure (BP) estimation** using **pulse arrival time (PAT)** features and **multiple embedding strategies**. The implementation includes Euclidean and Manhattan distance-based representations and attention-driven convolutional models.

---

## Overview

The project introduces multiple neural network architectures designed to estimate systolic (SBP) and diastolic (DBP) blood pressure from PAT sequences.  
This implementation focuses on the **PTT-PPG** dataset, which provides synchronized ECG and PPG recordings with reference blood pressure values.

The core architectures include:

1. **AttentiveConvRegNet** — CNN with Channel and Spatial Attention 
2. **ConvolutionalPoolingRegNet** — Standard CNN with pooling layers
3. **NeuralRegressionNet** — Fully connected regression baseline

---

## Dataset

### 1. PTT-PPG Dataset
The **PTT-PPG dataset** from [PhysioNet](https://www.physionet.org/content/pulse-transit-time-ppg/1.0.0/) was used for this implementation.  
It contains synchronized **ECG** and **PPG** recordings with corresponding **blood pressure (BP)** measurements for multiple subjects.

**Dataset link:**  
🔗 [https://www.physionet.org/content/pulse-transit-time-ppg/1.0.0/](https://www.physionet.org/content/pulse-transit-time-ppg/1.0.0/)

> Please ensure you comply with the PhysioNet Data Use Agreement before downloading.

---

### 2. MIMIC-II Cuff-less Blood Pressure Dataset
The main goal of this dataset is to provide clean and valid signals for designing cuff-less blood pressure estimation algorithms and to validate on a bigger dataset.  
The raw **ECG**, **PPG**, and **ABP** signals were originally collected from **PhysioNet**, and subsequently **preprocessed and validated** for research use.

**Dataset link:**  
🔗 [https://archive.ics.uci.edu/dataset/340/cuff+less+blood+pressure+estimation](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/dataset/340/cuff+less+blood+pressure+estimation)

> The provided implementation framework can be directly applied to both PTT-PPG and MIMIC-II datasets for model development and performance benchmarking.

---

## Key Features

- Multi-embedding similarity matrices using **Euclidean (EUC)** and **Manhattan (MAN)** distance formulations  
- Combined and concatenated feature embeddings (**EUC + MAN**)  
- **Attention-based architecture (CBAM)** with channel and spatial attention modules  
- **Bootstrap-based statistical evaluation (95% CI)** for robust analysis  
- **Bland-Altman plots** and **cumulative error percentage** evaluation for clinical interpretability  
- **Edge-efficient design** — AttentiveConvRegNet weights remain under **2 MB** for EUC/MAN, suitable for mobile or wearable devices

---

## Environment

This implementation was tested and verified on the following configuration:

- **Device**: Apple MacBook Pro (M3 Pro, 36 GB Unified Memory)  
- **Operating System**: macOS 15 Sonoma  
- **Python Version**: 3.10.14  
- **TensorFlow Version**: 2.16.2  
- **TensorFlow-Metal Version**: 1.2.0  

Install dependencies using:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt

Commit message:

Revise README title and add citation section
Updated the README to enhance the title and add citation information.

README.md, after:

# Unraveling blood pressure estimation with a deep learning approach using multiple embeddings

📄 **Official implementation of the method published in _Computers in Biology and Medicine (2026)_.**  
🔗 https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0010482525017317


This repository provides an implementation of deep learning frameworks for **cuffless blood pressure (BP) estimation** using **pulse arrival time (PAT)** features and **multiple embedding strategies**. The implementation includes Euclidean and Manhattan distance-based representations and attention-driven convolutional models.

---

## Overview

The project introduces multiple neural network architectures designed to estimate systolic (SBP) and diastolic (DBP) blood pressure from PAT sequences.  
This implementation focuses on the **PTT-PPG** dataset, which provides synchronized ECG and PPG recordings with reference blood pressure values.

The core architectures include:

1. **AttentiveConvRegNet** — CNN with Channel and Spatial Attention 
2. **ConvolutionalPoolingRegNet** — Standard CNN with pooling layers
3. **NeuralRegressionNet** — Fully connected regression baseline

---

## Dataset

### 1. PTT-PPG Dataset
The **PTT-PPG dataset** from [PhysioNet](https://www.physionet.org/content/pulse-transit-time-ppg/1.0.0/) was used for this implementation.  
It contains synchronized **ECG** and **PPG** recordings with corresponding **blood pressure (BP)** measurements for multiple subjects.

**Dataset link:**  
🔗 [https://www.physionet.org/content/pulse-transit-time-ppg/1.0.0/](https://www.physionet.org/content/pulse-transit-time-ppg/1.0.0/)

> Please ensure you comply with the PhysioNet Data Use Agreement before downloading.

---

### 2. MIMIC-II Cuff-less Blood Pressure Dataset
The main goal of this dataset is to provide clean and valid signals for designing cuff-less blood pressure estimation algorithms and to validate on a bigger dataset.  
The raw **ECG**, **PPG**, and **ABP** signals were originally collected from **PhysioNet**, and subsequently **preprocessed and validated** for research use.

**Dataset link:**  
🔗 [https://archive.ics.uci.edu/dataset/340/cuff+less+blood+pressure+estimation](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/dataset/340/cuff+less+blood+pressure+estimation)

> The provided implementation framework can be directly applied to both PTT-PPG and MIMIC-II datasets for model development and performance benchmarking.

---

## Key Features

- Multi-embedding similarity matrices using **Euclidean (EUC)** and **Manhattan (MAN)** distance formulations  
- Combined and concatenated feature embeddings (**EUC + MAN**)  
- **Attention-based architecture (CBAM)** with channel and spatial attention modules  
- **Bootstrap-based statistical evaluation (95% CI)** for robust analysis  
- **Bland-Altman plots** and **cumulative error percentage** evaluation for clinical interpretability  
- **Edge-efficient design** — AttentiveConvRegNet weights remain under **2 MB** for EUC/MAN, suitable for mobile or wearable devices

---

## 📌 Citation

If you use this repository, models, or any part of the proposed framework in your research, **please cite the following paper**:

```bibtex
@article{roha2026unraveling,
  title={Unraveling blood pressure estimation with a deep learning approach using multiple embeddings},
  author={Roha, Vishal Singh and Yuce, Mehmet R},
  journal={Computers in Biology and Medicine},
  volume={200},
  pages={111377},
  year={2026},
  publisher={Elsevier}
}

---

## Environment

This implementation was tested and verified on the following configuration:

- **Device**: Apple MacBook Pro (M3 Pro, 36 GB Unified Memory)  
- **Operating System**: macOS 15 Sonoma  
- **Python Version**: 3.10.14  
- **TensorFlow Version**: 2.16.2  
- **TensorFlow-Metal Version**: 1.2.0  

Install dependencies using:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
